The stop-signal anticipation task (SSAT) for functional MRI (Zandbelt and Vink, 2010) aims to measure performance and brain activation during actual stopping as well as during the anticipation of stopping. Subjects are presented with three parallel horizontal lines. On each trial, a bar moves at a constant speed from the lower line towards the upper line, reaching the middle line in 800 milliseconds. The main task is to stop the bar as close to the middle line as possible, by pressing a button with the right thumb (i.e. Go trial). Stop trials are identical to Go trials, except that the bar stops moving automatically before reaching the middle line, indicating that a response has to be suppressed (i.e. stop-signal). The probability that such a stop-signal will appear is manipulated across trials and can be anticipated based on three different cues; '0' indicating 0% chance, '*' 22 percent and '**' 33 percent chance the bar will stop on its own. Task difficulty is adjusted to performance in a stepwise fashion, with a varying delay between the stop-signal and the target (i.e. the stop-line) depending on the success of the previous trial, thereby keeping the number of failed and successful trials comparable between subjects and sessions.

**References**
Vink, M., Kaldewaij, R., Zandbelt, B. B., Pas, P., & du Plessis, S. (2015). The role of stop-signal probability and expectation in proactive inhibition. European Journal of Neuroscience, 41(February), n/a-n/a. http://doi.org/10.1111/ejn.12879
Vink, M., Zandbelt, B. B., Gladwin, T., Hillegers, M., Hoogendam, J. M., van den Wildenberg, W. P. M., ... Kahn, R. S. (2014). Frontostriatal activity and
connectivity increase during proactive inhibition across adolescence and early adulthood. Human Brain Mapping, 35(9), 4415–4427. http://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.22483
Zandbelt, B. B., Bloemendaal, M., Neggers, S. F. W., Kahn, R. S., & Vink, M. (2013). Expectations and violations: Delineating the neural network of proactive inhibitory control. Human Brain Mapping, 34(9), 2015–24. http://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.22047
Zandbelt, B., & Vink, M. (2010). On the role of the striatum in response inhibition. PloS One, 5(11). http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0013848